templates/README.md, before:

# ⚗ Runtipi Experimental Appstore ⛺️
This is an appstore for [Runtipi](https://runtipi.io), welcoming unexpected apps that won't fit common standards.

This appstore in **5** points :
- 🌱 Apps here are mostly young projects or beta 
- 💡 New ideas are welcome
- 🧪 Can explode at any moment
- 🙈 Broken apps stay hidden
- 🤫 *QA department has been layed off*

> [!TIP]  
> For an appstore with high quality stable apps, [check here](https://github.com/Lancelot-Enguerrand/Runtipi-Appstore)

## Apps available ✨ <!appsCount> ✨

| Logo | Name | Description | 
| :--: | ---- | ----------- |
<!appsList>

<br><br>
> [!WARNING]
> The following apps don't have any guarantee to work at all, either now or at any point in the future.
## 🚧 Apps deprecated 🪦 (<!appsNotReadyCount>)

| Logo | Name | Description |
| :--: | ---- | ----------- |
<!appsNotReadyList>

### Requests
If you want to suggest an app, feel free to ask.
I cannot guarantee to make it work but I may at least try.

### Contribution
This is more a personal laboratory but I won't refuse collaboration.
> [!NOTE]
> If an app catch your interest and you want to maintain it yourself, let me know.

Commit message:

Update appstore description
Enhanced the repository description :
- Added "How to use ?"
- Made app deprecation more clear with link to new appstore
- Enhanced the contribution notice to encourage people to maintain apps
- Kept emoji as low as possible (damn you AI)

templates/README.md, after:

# ⛺️ Runtipi Experimental Appstore ⚗
This is an appstore for [Runtipi](https://runtipi.io), welcoming unexpected apps that won't fit common standards.

This appstore in **5** points :
- 🌱 Apps here are mostly young projects or beta 
- 💡 New ideas are welcome
- 🧪 Can explode at any moment
- 🙈 Broken apps stay hidden
- 🤫 *QA department has been layed off*

> [!TIP]  
> For an appstore with high quality stable apps, [check here](https://github.com/Lancelot-Enguerrand/Runtipi-Appstore)

## Apps available ✨ <!appsCount> ✨

| Logo | Name | Description | 
| :--: | ---- | ----------- |
<!appsList>

<br>

## 🪦 Apps deprecated

 The following apps won't receive anymore updates here, check the linked appstore in the details for a continuous support.

| Logo | Name | Details |
| :--: | ---- | ------- |
<!appsNotReadyList>

---

### How to use ?
> [!IMPORTANT]
> You need a **[Runtipi](https://runtipi.io)** installation.

1. Log into your dashoard

2. Go to **Settings** -> **App Stores**

3. Click on **Add App Store** then copy and paste this in Appstore URL : 
*`https://github.com/Lancelot-Enguerrand/Experimental-Appstore`*

4. *You can use the name you like but I suggest using `Experimental`*

### Requests
If you want to suggest an app, feel free to ask.
I cannot guarantee to make it work but I may at least try.

### Contribution
This is more a personal laboratory but I won't refuse collaboration.
> [!NOTE]
> If an app catch your interest and you want to maintain it, let me know.
> I will add a link to your appstore.
